Season 1 :
The first season begins with a plane crash on a tropical island, apparently deserted.
The survivors have different reactions: some freak out, others try to find their suitcases, or to steal one, but most of them try to help each others...
Among the passengers we discover the main characters. We learn a lot about them throughout the flashbacks that punctuate each episode, and that give details on the characters lives before the crash. 
The first reaction of the survivors was of course to wait for help but they quickly learn that the pilot had veered off, so they have no idea of where they are, they are "lost".
What's more, the radio doesn't work, they have no way to communicate.
Very quickly the survivors find out handcuffs and understand that a fugitive is among them, someone potentially very dangerous.
The mutual aid quick turns into suspicion, fear and violence.
Guns are found out but quickly hided.
Survivors don't trust each others anymore, and fear is constantly there, as they hear some strange and unexplained noises.
The story takes place on a tropical island, the characters are therefore very surprised to see... a polar bear! 
They are also frightened by an unseen creature that they call "the Monster" and that kills the pilot in the first episode.
They are also suspicious towards the inhabitants of the island that they first thought to be deserted.
They called these inhabitants "the Others" and try to avoid them.
They also find a metal hatch buried in the ground, but have a hard time to open it. In the meantime, some passengers decide to construct a raft to leave the island.

Season 2 :
The "Others" threaten the survivors as they don't want them to be on their territory.
Many mysteries hold the spectators in suspense.
Whenever one is resolved, it is replaced by another one, most of the time at the end of an episode, so that people feel like watching the next one...
We see how life is organized on the island, and we notice how the control of guns and medicines gives a different status to everyone.
The leader is the one was has the guns, the others have to obey.
Little by little, they forget about democratic principles, it is the "law of the jungle".  
The survivors finally find a way to open the hatch, and find out it was a research station built by the "Dharma Initiative", an old scientific research project.
They are surprised to meet Desmond, a man that has lived in the hatch for some years, pushing a button every 108 minutes "to prevent a catastrophic event from occurring", even though he has no idea of what could really happen.
He is not even sure that something would happen, but he doesn't want to take any risks.

Season 3 :
In this season, the survivors finally succeed in making contact with a rescue team aboard a freighter.
We continue to learn more about the characters, the Others and the survivors (who continue to fight), in particular thanks to the flashbacks.
At the end of the season, a very unusual idea is introduced, which will be often used in the following seasons : the flash-forwards.
This is unnerving for the spectators who are not used to this concept. Most of the time, they have to guess if the scene is a flash forwards or backwards.
This gives an interesting puzzle for the spectators, who can imagine the different links between the scenes.  

Season 4 :
Season four focuses on the survivors dealing with the arrival of people from the freighter, who have been sent to the island not as part of a rescue operation, but for far more nefarious purposes.
The reason specifically for the freighter folks being there is revealed.
The survivors begin planning a way to get off the island before the freighter crew can carry out their plan.
Flashforwards reveal the identities and future actions of the so-called "Oceanic Six," a group of survivors who have escaped the island and attempted to resume their normal lives.
In an attempt to "move the island" to safety, one of the others uses an ancient device on the island that not only moves the island physically but also moves it to another point in time, while simultaneously teleporting that other to a desert in Tunisia.

Season 5 :
The fifth season follows two timelines.
The first takes place on the island where the survivors who were left behind erratically jump forward and backward through time until they are finally stranded with the Dharma Initiative in 1974.
The second continues the original timeline, which takes place on the mainland after the Oceanic Six escape, and then follows their return to the island on Ajira Airways flight 316 in 2007 (three years after they escaped).
Some passengers on the Ajira flight land in 1977 and some remain in 2007.
The ones who land in 1977 reunite with the other survivors who have lived for three years with the Dharma Initiative.
They then attempt to change past events in order to prevent their plane from crashing in the future.

Season 6 :
In the sixth & final season, the main storyline follows the survivors, reunited in the present day.
Following the demise of Jacob, the island's protector, the survivors are up against the Man in Black, known previously as the Smoke Monster.
A "flash-sideways" narrative also follows the lives of the main characters in a setting where Oceanic 815 never crashed.
In the final episodes, a flashback to the distant past shows the origins of the island's power and of the conflict between Jacob and the Man in Black, who are revealed to be twin brothers.
One survivor becomes the successor to Jacob as caretaker of the island, and kills the Man in Black in a final showdown, with the island at stake.
A small handful of survivors escape on the Ajira plane.
It is implied that a few survivors return home later, while others remain living happily on the island.
The series finale reveals that the flash-sideways timeline is actually a form of limbo, where some of the survivors and other characters from the island are reunited after having died because their time on the island had been the most important part of their existence.
In the end the survivors are all reunited in a church where they "move on" together.
