The first season of Oz sets the scene by introducing the characters and above all explaining the way life is organized in the “Oz” prison. 
Each episode starts with a speech of the narrator Augustus Hill, who is one of the prisoners. 
He talks about life in prison either in general, or in Oz in particular. He also talks in the middle of episodes, for example to introduce a prisoner -either because he has just arrived or because something important is going to happen to him. 
An episode never focuses on only one prisoner but is divided into several parts. 
Each one concerns a different character and all are happening at the same time.

In Oz prisoners are divided into gangs who are constantly fighting one against the others: Blacks, Latinos, Sicilians, Muslims, Aryans, Gays, and Others.

In the first episode, one of the Sicilians is being murdered by one of the “Black gang”. 
The Sicilians immediately decide to revenge by killing the murderer. 
From this moment, this will create a chain reaction involving most of the gangs (through the coalitions the prisoners make in exchange of drugs for instance). 
The prison staff is perfectly aware of the situation and that each death will cause another one by revenge. 
They are trying to find a solution to stop that but feel powerless. 
They want to justify each of their decisions legally which means in particular having real proofs of who has murdered who, which takes time. 
In the meantime, prisoners are acting in a lawless way and with violence, which means a quick reaction, in other words a quick murder. 
By doing things legally, the prison staff doesn't have time enough to prove the guiltiness of a prisoner that he has been already killed... 
This is all the more difficult that some of the prison guards are involved in some murders. 
In the meantime, the governor is taking very controversial decisions, such as restoring death penalty or preventing the prisoners from smoking and from having conjugal visits. 
These decisions are of course very unpopular among the prisoners and make them rebel. 
The season ends up with a big riot, and the initial situation will finally be reversed as some prison guards are being taken hostage by prisoners. 
The irony is, at this moment the prisoners have no other choice but to cooperate if they want to keep having the control of the situation.
