Ten months after the riot which caused several deaths among officers and prisoners, Em City reopens. McManus really wishes that everything goes well. He has two ideas in particular. First, he decides to form an inmate council so as to give the opportunity to everyone to express himself, and avoid another riot. Second, he also begins an education program as he thinks that having a diploma will give the inmates a better chance to reintegrate the society after their prison term. Unfortunately, this initiative doesn't work as well as planned for reasons coming from inside the prison but also from the outside. Inside the prison, the example of Kenny is relevant. He doesn't know how to read and as a consequence life after prison will be very difficult for him, he risks to opt for dealing drugs instead of having a legal job and therefore risks to be sent to prison again. McManus succeeds in making him aware of this situation, and he is therefore very motivated to attend class. But his pretended friend Adebisi threatens him to force him no to attend class anymore. He wants to keep having an influence on him and feels that it won't be the case anymore if he is educated. Like many characters in this season, Kenny faces a dilemma but will finally choose to attend class. In spite of these difficulties, McManus initiative hasn't failed as it enables some prisoners to get a diploma they wouldn't have had otherwise. The obstacle to this project coming from outside comes from the governor himself. After the first session, he decides to stop the project which costs too much. He thinks that people -and voters- are not interested by the well-being of the prisoners, so he prefers to spend the money on something else.

McManus is not the only one who really wants to give a chance to the prisoners. One of the prisoner, Kareem Said also does his best to help the other inmates. He tries to become the lawyer of Augustus, an inmate, to make him free, but unfortunately he failed. However, with McManus, he succeeds in making free the inmate nicknamed Poet for his love of writing poems. Kareem uses his relationship with a publisher to get some of his poems published. Poet becomes a bit famous, and with the press influence, he gets paroled early. Unfortunately he will quickly be sending back to prison as he will use the money from his books to buy drugs, and he will end up killing a drug dealer about to kill him.

A lot of other things happens in this second season for the different characters. One of them called Alvarez also faces a dilemma. He initially was the leader of the Latinos but now risk to be excluded from the gang by Hernandez, a charismatic newcomer who has quickly become the new leader. Hernandez gives him two options : either he is dishonoured and excluded, and with no protection of a gang, he will die soon, or he cuts the eyes off of Rivera, one of the officer. This second option makes him risk solitary confinement or maybe death row. He finally decides to cuts the eyes off of Rivera, but cannot live with no other perspective than solitary confinement and attempts suicide.

Another prisoner, Ryan O'Reily, finds out that he has a breast cancer. This is all the more difficult to admit because not only is he weak, but he also risks to be laughed at as breast cancer is very unusual for a man. Of course, being laughed at in Oz means things really worse than everywhere else, he even risks for his life. The main doctor of the prison called Dr Nathan succeeds in saving him. He is relieved and feels completely in love with Dr Nathan. This one tells him that she can't love him because she has a husband. Ryan wants to get rid of this "obstacle" and ask his brother Cyril to kill Dr Nathan husband. This murder will lead to Cyril being sent to the same prison as his brother.

Another prisoner called Tobias Beecher has been the victim of Schillinger, one of the Aryans, since he arrived in Oz. This one has humiliated and raped him. As Schillinger can be released on parole, Tobias sees an opportunity to revenge by sabotage his parole. He does everything he can to make Schillinger so crazy that he wants to kill him. Schillinger asks Diane, one of the officer, to kill Tobias by exchange of some money, thinking that she would agree. But Diane denounces him, which ruins for him the hope of being released on parole. From that moment, Schillinger hates Tobias more than ever and decide of a plan with Chris Keller, an old friend of him who has just arrived to Oz. The idea is to make Tobias drinking alcohol as the dependence on alcohol is the cause of all his problems, and in particular his imprisonment (he was drunk and killed a girl in a car accident). If he starts drinking again, he will destroy himself. Chris plays a role and gets closer to Tobias until Tobias feels in love with him. Then, he lets him down. Tobias is devastated, starts to drink and becomes weak. As he is in a very fragile position, he is being caught into a trap by Schillinger and Chris Keller which reveals him he has never loved him, humiliates him, and finally breaks his arms and legs. He is mentally and physically destroyed.


